docs/development/contributing.rst, before:

Contributing to PySD
====================


If you are interested in helping to develop PySD, the :doc:`pathway` lists areas that are ripe
for contribution.

To get started, you can fork the repository and make contributions to your own version.
When you're happy with your edits, submit a pull request to the main branch.

Development Tools
-----------------
There are a number of tools that you might find helpful in development:

Test Suite
^^^^^^^^^^
The test suite is found in the main repository in the `test_pysd.py` module. These tests run
quickly and should be executed when any changes are made to ensure that current functionality
remains intact.

The tests outlined in this file depend on a set of models present in the `tests` directory of the
main repository that are categorized by model source.

The test suite depends on the standard python :py:mod:`unittest` library.


Speed Tests
^^^^^^^^^^^
A set of speed tests are found in the `speed_test.py` module. These speed tests help understand how
changes to the PySD module influence the speed of execution. These tests take a little longer to run
than the basic test suite, but are not onerous. They should be run before any submission to the
repository.

The speed test results are appended to 'speedtest_results.json', along with version and date
information, so that before and after comparisons can be made.

The speed tests depend on the standard python :py:mod:`timeit` library.


Profiler
^^^^^^^^
Profiling the code can help to identify bottlenecks in operation. To understand how changes to the
code influence its speed, we should construct a profiling test that executes the PySD components in
question. The file 'profile_pysd.py' gives an example for how this profiling can be conducted, and
the file 'run_profiler.sh' executes the profiler and launches a view of the results that can be
explored in the browser.

The profiler depends on :py:mod:`cProfile` and `cprofilev <https://github.com/ymichael/cprofilev>`_


Python Linter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
`Pylint <http://docs.pylint.org/>`_ is a module that checks that your code meets proper python
coding practices. It is helpful for making sure that the code will be easy for other people to read,
and also is good fast feedback for improving your coding practice. The lint checker can be run for
the entire packages, and for individual python modules or classes. It should be run at a local level
(ie, on specific files) whenever changes are made, and globally before the package is committed.
It doesn't need to be perfect, but we should aspire always to move in a positive direction.'


PySD Design Philosophy
----------------------
Understanding that a focussed project is both more robust and maintainable, PySD aspires to the
following philosophy:


* Do as little as possible.

 * Anything that is not endemic to System Dynamics (such as plotting, integration, fitting, etc)
   should either be implemented using external tools, or omitted.
 * Stick to SD. Let other disciplines (ABM, Discrete Event Simulation, etc) create their own tools.
 * Use external model creation tools

* Use the core language of system dynamics.

 * Limit implementation to the basic XMILE standard.
 * Resist the urge to include everything that shows up in all vendors' tools.

* Emphasize ease of use. Let SD practitioners who haven't used python before understand the basics.
* Take advantage of general python constructions and best practices.
* Develop and use strong testing and profiling components. Share your work early. Find bugs early.
* Avoid firefighting or rushing to add features quickly. SD knows enough about short term thinking
  in software development to know where that path leads.

Commit message:

Migrate to Common Testsuite
The test suite in pysd has been merged into
https://github.com/SDXorg/test-models, and so this is now the default
test suite for pysd.

docs/development/contributing.rst, after:

Contributing to PySD
====================


If you are interested in helping to develop PySD, the :doc:`pathway` lists areas that are ripe
for contribution.

To get started, you can fork the repository and make contributions to your own version.
When you're happy with your edits, submit a pull request to the main branch.

Development Tools
-----------------
There are a number of tools that you might find helpful in development:

Test Suite
^^^^^^^^^^
PySD uses the common model test suite found `on github <https://github.com/SDXorg/test-models>`_

You can run the test suite with the `test_pysd.py` module, which will execute each test and display
some debugging info if there are issues.

The test runner will download the test suite, if
it is not already installed, into the `/tests/` directory. To update the test suite, you can
run `get_tests.py` manually.

These tests run quickly and should be executed when any changes are made to ensure
that current functionality remains intact.

The tes

Speed Tests
^^^^^^^^^^^
A set of speed tests are found in the `speed_test.py` module. These speed tests help understand how
changes to the PySD module influence the speed of execution. These tests take a little longer to run
than the basic test suite, but are not onerous. They should be run before any submission to the
repository.

The speed test results are appended to 'speedtest_results.json', along with version and date
information, so that before and after comparisons can be made.

The speed tests depend on the standard python :py:mod:`timeit` library.


Profiler
^^^^^^^^
Profiling the code can help to identify bottlenecks in operation. To understand how changes to the
code influence its speed, we should construct a profiling test that executes the PySD components in
question. The file 'profile_pysd.py' gives an example for how this profiling can be conducted, and
the file 'run_profiler.sh' executes the profiler and launches a view of the results that can be
explored in the browser.

The profiler depends on :py:mod:`cProfile` and `cprofilev <https://github.com/ymichael/cprofilev>`_


Python Linter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
`Pylint <http://docs.pylint.org/>`_ is a module that checks that your code meets proper python
coding practices. It is helpful for making sure that the code will be easy for other people to read,
and also is good fast feedback for improving your coding practice. The lint checker can be run for
the entire packages, and for individual python modules or classes. It should be run at a local level
(ie, on specific files) whenever changes are made, and globally before the package is committed.
It doesn't need to be perfect, but we should aspire always to move in a positive direction.'


PySD Design Philosophy
----------------------
Understanding that a focussed project is both more robust and maintainable, PySD aspires to the
following philosophy:


* Do as little as possible.

 * Anything that is not endemic to System Dynamics (such as plotting, integration, fitting, etc)
   should either be implemented using external tools, or omitted.
 * Stick to SD. Let other disciplines (ABM, Discrete Event Simulation, etc) create their own tools.
 * Use external model creation tools

* Use the core language of system dynamics.

 * Limit implementation to the basic XMILE standard.
 * Resist the urge to include everything that shows up in all vendors' tools.

* Emphasize ease of use. Let SD practitioners who haven't used python before understand the basics.
* Take advantage of general python constructions and best practices.
* Develop and use strong testing and profiling components. Share your work early. Find bugs early.
* Avoid firefighting or rushing to add features quickly. SD knows enough about short term thinking
  in software development to know where that path leads.
