docs/structure/python_builder.rst, before:

Python builder
==============

The Python builder allows to build models that can be run with the PySD Model class.

The use of a one-to-one dictionary in translation means that the breadth of functionality is inherently limited. In the case where no direct Python equivalent is available, PySD provides a library of functions such as `pulse`, `step`, etc. that are specific to dynamic model behavior.

In addition to translating individual commands between Vensim/XMILE and Python, PySD reworks component identifiers to be Python-safe by replacing spaces with underscores. The translator allows source identifiers to make use of alphanumeric characters, spaces, or special characteres. In order to make that possible a namespace is created, which links the original name of the variable with the Python-safe name. The namespace is also available in the PySD model class to allow users working with both original names and Python-safe names.


Main builders
-------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.python_model_builder
   :members:

Expression builders
-------------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.python_expressions_builder
   :members:


.. _Python supported functions:

Supported expressions examples
------------------------------
Operators
^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table:: Supported unary operators
   :file: ../tables/unary_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

.. csv-table:: Supported binary operators
   :file: ../tables/binary_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Functions
^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table:: Supported basic functions
   :file: ../tables/functions_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

.. csv-table:: Supported delay functions
   :file: ../tables/delay_functions_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

.. csv-table:: Supported get functions
   :file: ../tables/get_functions_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Namespace manager
-----------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.namespace
   :members: NamespaceManager


Subscript manager
-----------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.subscripts
   :members:


Imports manager
---------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.imports
   :members:

Commit message:

Add sentence about black formatting

docs/structure/python_builder.rst, after:

Python builder
==============

The Python builder allows to build models that can be run with the PySD Model class.

The use of a one-to-one dictionary in translation means that the breadth of functionality is inherently limited. In the case where no direct Python equivalent is available, PySD provides a library of functions such as `pulse`, `step`, etc. that are specific to dynamic model behavior.

In addition to translating individual commands between Vensim/XMILE and Python, PySD reworks component identifiers to be Python-safe by replacing spaces with underscores. The translator allows source identifiers to make use of alphanumeric characters, spaces, or special characteres. In order to make that possible a namespace is created, which links the original name of the variable with the Python-safe name. The namespace is also available in the PySD model class to allow users working with both original names and Python-safe names.

The resulting Python code from building the model is formatted with `black` library and it is written to the same folder where the original model is.


Main builders
-------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.python_model_builder
   :members:

Expression builders
-------------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.python_expressions_builder
   :members:


.. _Python supported functions:

Supported expressions examples
------------------------------
Operators
^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table:: Supported unary operators
   :file: ../tables/unary_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

.. csv-table:: Supported binary operators
   :file: ../tables/binary_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Functions
^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table:: Supported basic functions
   :file: ../tables/functions_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

.. csv-table:: Supported delay functions
   :file: ../tables/delay_functions_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

.. csv-table:: Supported get functions
   :file: ../tables/get_functions_python.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Namespace manager
-----------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.namespace
   :members: NamespaceManager


Subscript manager
-----------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.subscripts
   :members:


Imports manager
---------------
.. automodule:: pysd.builders.python.imports
   :members:
